# NLTK Sentiment Analysis
 In this project, I tested the NLTK library's sentiment analysis feature using Amazon reviews to compare sentiment scores against star ratings given by reviewers. After determining how accurate the sentiment analysis is, I used the same library in order to perform sentiment analysis on X (formerly known as Twitter) reviews on Avengers Endgame, written on April 23rd, 2019, three days before the U.S. release of the movie. By graphing the overall, positive, neutral, and negative sentiments, as well as creating word clouds including both original posts and retweets, I analyzed public sentiment towards the release of Avengers Endgame at the time of data collection.

# Data Collection
The first dataset I make use of is ["Amazon Fine Food Reviews"](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/snap/amazon-fine-food-reviews), published by Stanford Network Analysis Project to kaggle.com. This dataset contains information from Amazon reviews, which contain both a text review and a score from one to five stars. It contains reviews from a large variety of products, written by different customers, and was published in 2017.
The second dataset is titled ["Twitter Dataset - #AvengersEndgame"](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kavita5/twitter-dataset-avengersendgame) by Kavita Lolayekar on kaggle.com. This data was collected on April 23rd, 2019, and contains 15,000 tweets including the text posted, the author, information about whether it is a retweet, and the date it was posted.

# Data Cleaning
For the Amazon reviews, I prepared the data by importing only 3,000 rows of the dataset. It is a very large dataset, containing over 560,000 reviews, and would be very slow and unwieldy to work with. Since we only need this data for testing purposes, 3,000 rows is enough data to compare against our sentiment analysis.
For the Twitter dataset, no modifications were needed for sentiment analysis, but in order to plot word clouds, links and unicode information was filtered out, as well as common phrases like "RT" which simply notes that a tweet is a retweet. Additionally, all text was converted to lowercase for string matching purposes.

# Data Analysis
Both datasets were analyzed using NLTK's sentiment intensity analyzer, which requires each sentence to be tokenized, tagged, and grouped appropriately. Using SentimentIntensityAnalyzer.polarity_scores(), we can run this process on every tweet in the database and save the sentiment scores to a database. We can then gather these sentiment scores and find the overall distribution of sentiment, as well as the positive, negative, and neutral sentiments. When these scores were compared against the Amazon star review scores, the results were generally in line with what would be expected for the review given, showing that the sentiment analysis was working as intended and analysis on the Twitter database could continue.

The same overall sentiment analysis was performed for the Twitter posts, as well as individual graphs of the positive, negative, and neutral sentiments. Notably, the positive, negative, and neutral sentiments do not provide insight on the tweet as a whole, but rather how many positive, negative, or neutral words were used in the tweet. The overall sentiment seemed to be generally neutral, but with a lean towards positive. Additionally, when creating word clouds, we found that there were a few very popular tweets that were retweeter often, such as one joke about Avengers Endgame ads that was very prevalent in the word cloud, with over 70,000 retweets on the original post. When viewing the word cloud of only original tweets, there was significantly more discussion about going to see the movie soon, with words such as "ticket", "wait", and "excited" appearing in the word cloud.

# Conclusions
The sentiments from the Amazon reviews matched up with their star scores as hoped, proving that the sentiment analysis could provide a somewhat accurate insight into the authors intentions. In terms of the Twitter posts, while most people had not yet had a chance to see the movie, the sentiment in this community on Twitter was generally pretty positive and excited to see the movie. The combination of sentiment analysis and word clouds are a very useful way to explore quantitative data that cannot be measured numerically, and provide an excellent insight into changing opinions as they can be performed at any point in time, given enough data.

# Further Steps
For future uses of sentiment analysis, I would most likely choose to retrieve a larger quantity of data directly from the X (or Twitter) API relating to the topic I would like to explore. Although it would take much more processing time, I feel that a larger quanitity of data would make for better results, especially for applications such as word clouds. Additionally, I would collect information over a larger period of time. While the data collected from a single day is interesting to analyze, public opinion tends to fluctate rapidly and a longer period of data would give more stable, reproducable results. Finally, if I were to perform sentiment analysis on a particular product again, I would collect data from multiple sources, such as other text based social media like Facebook and Reddit that relate to my product. Not only would this provide a larger pool of data to sample from, but different social media communities tend to have varying sentiments towards the same product, and comparing sentiment from various platforms would provide insight on how different communities could enjoy the product.
